

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
(A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적
절한 것은? [21]
One valuable technique for getting out of helplessness,
depression,  and  situations  which  are  predominantly
being run by the thought, “I can’t,” is to choose to be
with other persons who have (A) [raised / resolved]
the problem with which we struggle. This is one of the
great powers of self-help groups. When we are in a
negative  state,  we  have  given  a  lot  of  energy  to
negative  thought  forms,  and  the  positive  thought
forms are weak. Those who are in a higher vibration
are  free  of  the  energy  from  their  negative  thoughts
and have energized positive thought forms. Merely to
be in their (B) [presence / absence] is beneficial. In
some self-help groups, this is called “hanging out with
the winners.” The benefit here is on the psychic level of
consciousness,  and  there  is  a (C)   [transfer   /
transformation] of positive energy and relighting of
one’s own latent positive thought forms.
* latent: 잠재적인
① resolved - presence - transformation
② resolved - absence - transformation
③ resolved - presence - transfer
④ raised - presence - transformation
⑤ raised - absence - transfer
(A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적
절한 것은? [22]
Our emotions are thought to exist because they have
contributed  to  our  survival  as  a  species.  Fear  has
helped  us  avoid  dangers,  expressing  anger  helps  us
scare  off  threats,  and  expressing  positive  emotions
helps  us  bond  with  others.  From  an  evolutionary
perspective, an emotion is a kind of “program” that,
when (A) [eliminated / triggered], directs many of
our activities (including attention, perception, memory,
movement,  expressions,  etc.).  For  example,  fear
makes us very attentive, narrows our perceptual focus
to threatening stimuli, will cause us either to face a
situation (fight) or avoid it (flight), and may cause us
to remember an experience more acutely (so that we
avoid  the  threat  in  the  future).  Regardless  of  the
specific ways in which they (B) [activate / weaken]
our  systems,  the  specific  emotions  we  possess  are
thought to exist because they have helped us (as a
species)  survive  challenges  within  our  environment
long  ago.  If  they  had  not  helped  us (C)  [adapt  /
resist] and survive, they would not have evolved with
us.
① triggered - weaken - resist
② eliminated - activate - resist
③ eliminated - weaken - adapt
④ triggered - activate - adapt
⑤ eliminated - activate - adapt
(A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적
절한 것은? [23]
By improving accessibility of the workplace for workers
that  are  typically  at  a  disadvantage  in  the  labour
market,  AI  can  improve (A)   [exclusiveness   /
inclusiveness] in the workplace. AI-powered assistive
devices to aid workers with visual, speech or hearing
difficulties are becoming more widespread, improving
the access to, and the quality of work for people with
disabilities. For example, speech recognition solutions
for  people  with  dysarthric  voices,  or  live  captioning
systems  for  deaf  and  hard  of  hearing  people  can
facilitate communication with colleagues and access to
jobs  where (B)  [interpersonal  /  intrapersonal]
communication is necessary. AI can also enhance the
capabilities  of  low-skilled  workers,  with  potentially
positive effects on their wages and career prospects.
For  example,  AI’s  capacity  to  translate  written  and
spoken  word  in  real-time  can  guarantee  the (C)
[productivty  /  predominance] the performance of
non-native  speakers  in  the  workplace.  Moreover,
recent  developments  in  AI-powered  text  generators
can instantly improve the performance of lower-skilled
individuals  in  domains  such  as  writing,  coding  or
customer service.
*dysarthric: (신경 장애로 인한) 구음(構音) 장애의
① inclusiveness - interpersonal - productivty
② exclusiveness - interpersonal - productivty
③ inclusiveness - interpersonal - predominance
④ exclusiveness - intrapersonal - productivty
⑤ inclusiveness - intrapersonal - predominance
(A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적
절한 것은? [31]
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 2 -
진진영어
You hear again and again that some of the greatest
composers were misunderstood in their own day. Not
everyone  could  understand  the  compositions  of
Beethoven,  Brahms,  or  Stravinsky  in  their  day.  The
reason  for  this  initial  lack  of (A)  [knowledge  /
ignorance] is  unfamiliarity.  The  musical  forms,  or
ideas  expressed  within  them,  were  completely  new.
And yet, this is exactly one of the things that makes
them  so (B)  [ordinary  /  exceptional].  Effective
composers have their own ideas. Have you ever seen
the  classic  movie  Amadeus?  The  composer  Antonio
Salieri is the “host” of this movie; he’s depicted as one
of the most famous non-great composers ― he lived at
the  time  of  Mozart  and  was  completely (C)
[overshadowed / brightened] by him. Now, Salieri
wasn’t a bad composer; in fact, he was a very good
one. But he wasn’t one of the world’s great composers
because  his  work  wasn’t  original.  What  he  wrote
sounded just like what everyone else was composing
at the time.
① ignorance - ordinary - overshadowed
② ignorance - exceptional - brightened
③ knowledge - exceptional - brightened
④ knowledge - ordinary - brightened
⑤ knowledge - exceptional - overshadowed
(A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적
절한 것은? [35]
Why  do  we  have  the  illusion  that  cramming  for  an
exam is the best learning strategy? Because we are
unable to differentiate between the various sections of
our memory. Immediately after reading our textbook
or our class notes, information is fully (A) [removed
/  embedded]  in  our  mind.  It  sits  in  our  conscious
working memory, in an active form. We feel as if we
know it, because it is present in our short-term storage
space ... but this short-term section has (B) [nothing
/ something] to do with the long-term memory that
we will need in order to recall the same information a
few  days  later.  After  a  few  seconds  or  minutes,
working memory already starts disappearing, and after
a few days, the effect becomes enormous: unless you
retest  your  knowledge,  memory (C)  [vanishes  /
banishes]. To get information into long-term memory,
it is essential to study the material, then test yourself,
rather than spend all your time studying.
*cram: 벼락 공부를 하다
① embedded - something - vanishes
② removed - nothing - banishes
③ removed - something - vanishes
④ embedded - nothing - banishes
⑤ embedded - nothing - vanishes
(A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적
절한 것은? [38]
Biologists  distinguish  two  kinds  of  similarity.
“Analogous”  traits  are  ones  that  have  a  common
function  but  arose  on  different  branches  of  the
evolutionary tree and are in an important sense not
“the same” organ. The wings of birds and the wings of
bees are both used for flight and are (A)  [similar /
dissimilar] in some ways because anything used for
flight  has  to  be  built  in  those  ways,  but  they  arose
independently  in  evolution  and  have  nothing  in
common  beyond  their  use  in  flight.  “Homologous”
traits,  in  contrast,  may  or  may  not  have  a  common
function, but they descended from a common ancestor
and  hence  have  some  common  structure  that (B)
[negates / indicates] their being “the same” organ.
The wing of a bat and the front leg of a horse have
very different functions, but they are all modifications
of the forelimb of the ancestor of all mammals. As a
result, they share (C) [nonfunctional / functional]
traits like the number of bones and the ways they are
connected.  To  distinguish  analogy  from  homology,
biologists usually look at the overall architecture of the
organs and focus on their most useless properties.
① dissimilar - negates - nonfunctional
② dissimilar - indicates - functional
③ similar - negates - functional
④ similar - indicates - nonfunctional
⑤ dissimilar - indicates - nonfunctional
(A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적
절한 것은? [39]
5. 
6. 
7. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 3 -
진진영어
Seawater contains an abundance of dissolved oxygen
that all marine animals breathe to stay alive. It has
long been established in physics that cold water holds
more dissolved oxygen than warm water does ― this is
one reason that cold polar seas are full of life while
tropical  oceans  are  blue,  clear,  and  relatively  poorly
populated  with  living  creatures.  Thus,  as  global
warming raises the temperature of marine waters, it is
self-evident that the amount of dissolved oxygen will
(A) [decrease / increase]. This is a worrisome and
potentially  disastrous  consequence  if  allowed  to
continue  to  an  ecosystem-threatening  level.  Now
scientists  have  analyzed  data  indicating  that  the
amount of dissolved oxygen in the oceans has been
declining for more than a half century. The data show
that  the  ocean  oxygen  level  has  been  falling  more
rapidly  than  the  corresponding  rise  in  water
temperature. Falling oxygen levels in water have the
potential to impact the (B) [population / habitat] of
marine organisms worldwide and in recent years this
has  led  to  more  frequent  anoxic  events  that (C)
[sheltered / killed] or displaced populations of fish,
crabs, and many other organisms.
*dissolved: 용해된 **anoxic: 산소 결핍의
① decrease - habitat - sheltered
② decrease - population - killed
③ increase - habitat - sheltered
④ increase - population - killed
⑤ decrease - habitat - killed
(A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적
절한 것은? [40]
Capuchins  ―  New  World  Monkeys  that  live  in  large
social groups ― will, in captivity, trade with people all
day long, especially if food is involved. I give you this
rock and you give me a treat to eat. If you put two
monkeys in cages next to each other, and offer them
both  slices  of  cucumber  for  the  rocks  they  already
have, they will happily eat the cucumbers. If, however,
you give one monkey grapes instead ― grapes being
universally (A) [desired / rejected] to cucumbers ―
the monkey that is still receiving cucumbers will begin
to throw them back at the experimenter. Even though
she  is  still  getting  “paid”  the  same  amount  for  her
effort of sourcing rocks, and so her particular situation
has not changed, the comparison to another makes the
situation (B) [unjust / fair]. Furthermore, she is now
willing  to  abandon  all  gains  ―  the  cucumbers
themselves ― to communicate her (C) [annoyance /
satisfaction] to the experimenter.
① desired - fair - satisfaction
② rejected - fair - satisfaction
③ rejected - unjust - annoyance
④ desired - fair - annoyance
⑤ desired - unjust - annoyance
(A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적
절한 것은? [35]
Why  do  we  have  the (A)  [reality  /  illusion]  that
cramming for an exam is the best learning strategy?
Because  we  are  unable  to  differentiate  between  the
various  sections  of  our  memory.  Immediately  after
reading our textbook or our class notes, information is
fully present in our mind. It sits in our (B) [conscious
/  unconscious] working memory, in an active form.
We feel as if we know it, because it is present in our
short-term  storage  space  ...  but  this  short-term
section has nothing to do with the long-term memory
that  we  will  need  in  order  to  recall  the  same
information a few days later. After a few seconds or
minutes, working memory already starts disappearing,
and after a few days, the effect becomes enormous:
unless  you  retest  your  knowledge,  memory (C)
[vanishes  /  remains]. To get information into long-
term  memory,  it  is  essential  to  study  the  material,
then  test  yourself,  rather  than  spend  all  your  time
studying.
*cram: 벼락 공부를 하다
① illusion - conscious - vanishes
② illusion - unconscious - remains
③ reality - unconscious - vanishes
④ reality - conscious - vanishes
⑤ reality - conscious - remains
8. 
9. 

(정답지) 2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
1 번 - ③   (A)우리가 겪고 있는 문제를 해결한 사람들과 함께
있는 것이 중요하다. (B)긍정적인 에너지를 가진 사람들과 함께
있는 것이 유익하다. (C)다른 사람들의 긍정적인 에너지가 우리의
내면으로 전달된다.
2 번 - ④   (A)"감정이 '트리거'되면"이라고 표현하는 것이 의미
에 맞다. 감정은 특정한 자극에 의해 유발(triggered)되어 우리의
활동을 이끈다. 예를 들어, 두려움은 특정 위협적인 자극에 의해
유발되어 우리의 반응을 이끈다. (B) 감정은 우리의 시스템을 '활
성화'한다. 예를 들어, 두려움은 우리의 인지 능력, 주의력, 기억
등을 활성화시켜 우리가 상황에 반응하도록 만든다. (C) 감정은
우리가 환경에 '적응'할 수 있도록 돕는다. 감정은 우리가 위협에
대응하고 생존할 수 있도록 우리의 행동을 유도하는 데 중요한 역
할을 한다.
3 번 - ①   [기출응용] (A) AI는 일터에서 포괄성을 향상시킬 수
있다는 흐름이 자연스러우므로 inclusiveness(포괄성)이 적절하
다. exclusiveness는 '배제성'이라는 뜻이다. (B) 시스템은 동료
와의 의사소통과 대인 의사소통이 필요한 일에 대한 접근을 용이
하게 한다는 흐름이 자연스러우므로 interpersonal(대인)이 적절
하다. intrapersonal은 '개인'이라는 뜻이다. (C) AI의 실시간으
로 문서와 음성을 번역하는 능력은 생산성을 보장할 수 있다는 흐
름이 자연스러우므로 productivty(생산성)이 적절하다.
predominance는 '우세함'이라는 뜻이다.
4 번 - ⑤   (A) 위대한 작곡가들이 당대에 인정받지 못하는 경우
를 초기에 잘 알지 못함이라 할 수 있다. (B) 초반의 낯섦으로 인
정받지 못하더라도 이는 위대한 작품의 요소이다. (C) 영화 아마
데우스의 주인공 살레리는 훌륭한 작곡가이지만 독창성이 부족하
여 모차르트에게 가려졌던 것이다. [응용]
5 번 - ⑤   (A) '교과서나 수업 노트를 읽은 직후에 내용은 우리
머릿속에 완전하게 박힌다'가 흐름상 적절하다 (B) '우리는 그 내
용이 단기 저장 공간에 존재하기 때문에 그 내용을 알고 있는 것처
럼 느끼지만, 이 단기 저장 공간은 며칠 지나서 같은 정보를 떠올
리기 위해서 필요할 장기기억과 아무런 관계가 없다'가 흐름상 적
절하다. (C) 몇 초나 몇 분 후에 작업기억은 이미 사라지기 시작하
고, 며칠이 지나면 그 효과는 엄청나게 된다. 그래서 배운 내용을
다시 점검하지 않으면 기억은 사라진다'가 흐름상 적절하다. <변
형 포인트 : 어휘변형 > (A)원문 : present
6 번 - ④   (A) 새와 벌의 날개는 비슷한 기능을 하므로
"similar"가 적합하다.(B) "Homologous" 특성은 공통 조상에서
유래한 기관들이므로 그것들의 공통 구조는 "indicates" (같은 기
관임을 나타낸다)이다.(C) "Homologous" 기관들은 공통의 기능
적 특성, 즉 뼈의 수와 연결 방식을 공유하므로 "functional"이 맞
다.
7 번 - ⑤   (A) 기후 변화로 해양 온도가 상승하면 용존 산소는
감소한다는 과학적 원리에 따라 "decrease"가 맞다.(B) 용존 산
소의 감소는 해양 생물의 개체 수에 영향을 미치며, 생물들이 생존
할 수 없을 때 발생하는 변화이다.(C) "Anoxic events"는 산소가
없는 상태로, 이는 해양 생물들을 죽이거나 그들을 다른 곳으로 이
동시키게 만든다.
8 번 - ⑤   (A) 포도와 오이의 선호도를 비교하므로, 보편적으로
선호됨이라고 해야 적절하다. (B) 한 원숭이가 상대적 비교를 통
해 자신의 처지를 불공정하게 인식하므로, unjust가 적절하다.
(C) 오이를 던지는 행동은 annoyance가 적절하다.
9 번 - ①   (A) illusion: 'illusion'은 우리가 단기적으로 정보를
잘 알고 있다고 느끼는 잘못된 인식이나 착각을 의미한다. 실제로,
정보를 즉시 기억하는 것처럼 느끼지만, 그것은 오래가지 않으며
장기 기억으로 저장되지 않는다는 설명과 일치한다. (B)
conscious: 'conscious'는 우리가 즉시 기억할 수 있는, 즉 의식
적으로 접근할 수 있는 정보를 말한다. 이는 단기 기억에 해당하
며, 우리가 정보를 인지하고 있을 때의 상태이다. (C) vanishes:
'vanishes'는 시간이 지나면서 우리가 기억하던 정보가 사라진다
는 의미로, 본문에서 설명하는 대로 시간이 지나면 정보가 사라지
거나 잊혀진다고 했으므로 적합한 단어이다.