

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [20]
As the parent of a gifted child, you need to be aware of
a  certain  common  parent  trap.  Of  course  you  are  a
proud parent, and you should be. While it is very easy
to talk nonstop about your little genius and his or her
remarkable behavior, this can be very stressful on your
child. It is extremely important to limit your bragging
behavior to your very close friends, or your parents.
Gifted children feel pressured when their parents show
them off too much. This behavior creates expectations
that  they  may  not  be  able  to  live  up  to,  and  also
creates a false sense of self for your child. You want
your child to be who they are, not who they seem to
be as defined by their incredible achievements. If not,
you could end up with a driven perfectionist child or
perhaps a drop-out, or worse.
 According to the passage, parents of gifted children
should  be  cautious  about     (A)     their  child's
abilities excessively, as this can lead to unrealistic    
(B)    and unnecessary stress for the child.
① criticizing - confidence
② ignoring - opportunities
③ praising - expectations
④ complimenting - benefits
⑤ underestimating - challenges
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [21]
One valuable technique for getting out of helplessness,
depression,  and  situations  which  are  predominantly
being run by the thought, “I can’t,” is to choose to be
with  other  persons  who  have  resolved  the  problem
with which we struggle. This is one of the great powers
of self-help groups. When we are in a negative state,
we  have  given  a  lot  of  energy  to  negative  thought
forms, and the positive thought forms are weak. Those
who are in a higher vibration are free of the energy
from  their  negative  thoughts  and  have  energized
positive thought forms. Merely to be in their presence
is  beneficial.  In  some  self-help  groups,  this  is  called
“hanging out with the winners.” The benefit here is on
the  psychic  level  of  consciousness,  and  there  is  a
transfer of positive energy and relighting of one’s own
latent positive thought forms.
* latent: 잠재적인
       (A)       others  who  have  succeeded  can  help
individuals  regain  their       (B)       and  shift  away
from negative thinking.
① Averting - confusion
② Hanging out with - depression
③ Talking behind - enthusiasm
④ Shying away from - confidence
⑤ Connecting with - motivation
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [22]
1. 
2. 
3. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 2 -
진진영어
Our emotions are thought to exist because they have
contributed  to  our  survival  as  a  species.  Fear  has
helped  us  avoid  dangers,  expressing  anger  helps  us
scare  off  threats,  and  expressing  positive  emotions
helps  us  bond  with  others.  From  an  evolutionary
perspective, an emotion is a kind of “program” that,
when  triggered,  directs  many  of  our  activities
(including  attention,  perception,  memory,  movement,
expressions,  etc.).  For  example,  fear  makes  us  very
attentive, narrows our perceptual focus to threatening
stimuli, will cause us either to face a situation (fight)
or avoid it (flight), and may cause us to remember an
experience more acutely (so that we avoid the threat
in the future). Regardless of the specific ways in which
they  activate  our  systems,  the  specific  emotions  we
possess are thought to exist because they have helped
us  (as  a  species)  survive  challenges  within  our
environment long ago. If they had not helped us adapt
and survive, they would not have evolved with us.
  Emotions  have  evolved  as  adaptive       (A)     
that guide our responses to environmental challenges,
helping to enhance our       (B)      survival.
① reactions - national
② responses - illegal
③ mechanisms - species
④ programs - revive
⑤ mechanisms - immortal
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [23]
By improving accessibility of the workplace for workers
that  are  typically  at  a  disadvantage  in  the  labour
market, AI can improve inclusiveness in the workplace.
AI-powered  assistive  devices  to  aid  workers  with
visual,  speech  or  hearing  difficulties  are  becoming
more  widespread,  improving  the  access  to,  and  the
quality  of  work  for  people  with  disabilities.  For
example, speech recognition solutions for people with
dysarthric voices, or live captioning systems for deaf
and   hard   of   hearing   people   can   facilitate
communication  with  colleagues  and  access  to  jobs
where  inter-personal  communication  is  necessary.  AI
can  also  enhance  the  capabilities  of  low-skilled
workers,  with  potentially  positive  effects  on  their
wages  and  career  prospects.  For  example,  AI’s
capacity to translate written and spoken word in real-
time  can  improve  the  performance  of  non-native
speakers   in   the   workplace.   Moreover,   recent
developments  in  AI-powered  text  generators  can
instantly  improve  the  performance  of  lower-skilled
individuals  in  domains  such  as  writing,  coding  or
customer service.
*dysarthric: (신경 장애로 인한) 구음(構音) 장애의
AI  technology  can  help  create  a  more     (A)   
workplace  environment  by     (B)     workplace
accessibility  and  work  quality  for  workers  with
disabilities, while also enhancing the job performance
of low-skilled employees.
① rounded - strengthening
② productive - prohibiting
③ competitive - including
④ secure - reducing
⑤ undesirable - denying
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [24]
4. 
5. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 3 -
진진영어
Whales  are  highly  efficient  at  carbon  storage.  When
they die, each whale sequesters an average of 30 tons
of  carbon  dioxide,  taking  that  carbon  out  of  the
atmosphere for centuries. For comparison, the average
tree absorbs only 48 pounds of CO2 a year. From a
climate  perspective,  each  whale  is  the  marine
equivalent  of  thousands  of  trees.  Whales  also  help
sequester  carbon  by  fertilizing  the  ocean  as  they
release  nutrient-rich  waste,  in  turn  increasing
phytoplankton  populations,  which  also  sequester
carbon  ―  leading  some  scientists  to  call  them  the
“engineers   of   marine   ecosystems.”   In   2019,
economists  from  the  International  Monetary  Fund
(IMF) estimated the value of the ecosystem services
provided by each whale at over $2 million USD. They
called for a new global program of economic incentives
to  return  whale  populations  to  preindustrial  whaling
levels as one example of a “nature-based solution” to
climate change. Calls are now being made for a global
whale  restoration  program,  to  slow  down  climate
change.
*sequester: 격리하다 **phytoplankton: 식물성 플랑크톤
 Whales are increasingly recognized as        (A)         in
terms of       (B)       .
① cruel predators - providing rich nutrients
② cruel predators - controlling marine food chain
③ economic facilitators - enpowring ecotourism industry
④ environmental guardians - reducing atmospheric
carbon
⑤ environmental guardians - worsening marine
environment
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [31]
You hear again and again that some of the greatest
composers were misunderstood in their own day. Not
everyone  could  understand  the  compositions  of
Beethoven,  Brahms,  or  Stravinsky  in  their  day.  The
reason  for  this  initial  lack  of  acceptance  is
unfamiliarity.  The  musical  forms,  or  ideas  expressed
within  them,  were  completely  new.  And  yet,  this  is
exactly one of the things that makes them so great.
Effective  composers  have  their  own  ideas.  Have  you
ever seen the classic movie Amadeus? The composer
Antonio  Salieri  is  the  “host”  of  this  movie;  he’s
depicted  as  one  of  the  most  famous  non-great
composers ― he lived at the time of Mozart and was
completely overshadowed by him. Now, Salieri wasn’t
a bad composer; in fact, he was a very good one. But
he wasn’t one of the world’s great composers because
his work wasn’t original. What he wrote sounded just
like what everyone else was composing at the time.
The reason why some of the greatest     (A)   , like
Beethoven and Mozart, were not properly appreciated
in  their  own  time  is  the     (B)     of  their  works,
which were entirely new and unheard of before
① writers - unfamiliarity
② writers - familiarity
③ artists - commonality
④ composers - unfamiliarity
⑤ composers - familiarity
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [32]
6. 
7. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 4 -
진진영어
Every time a new medium comes along — whether it’s
the invention of the printed book, or TV, or SNS — and
you start to use it, it’s like you are putting on a new
kind  of  goggles,  with  their  own  special  colors  and
lenses. Each set of goggles you put on makes you see
things  differently.  So  when  you  start  to  watch
television,  before  you  absorb  the  message  of  any
particular TV show — whether it’s Wheel of Fortune or
The Wire — you start to see the world as being shaped
like television itself. That’s why Marshall McLuhan said
that every time a new medium comes along — a new
way for humans to communicate — it has buried in it a
message.  It  is  gently  guiding  us  to  see  the  world
according to a new set of codes. The way information
gets to you, McLuhan argued, is more important than
the information itself. TV teaches you that the world is
fast; that it’s about surfaces and appearances.
Every new medium not only     (A)    us to see the
world  differently  but  also     (B)     pace  and
appearances with television.
① compels - refusing
② encourages - denying
③ restricts - without
④ allows - enhancing
⑤ manipulates - burying
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [33]
Concepts are vital to human survival, but we must also
be careful with them because concepts open the door
to essentialism. They encourage us to see things that
aren’t  present.  Stuart  Firestein  opens  his  book,
Ignorance, with an old proverb, “It is very difficult to
find a black cat in a dark room, especially when there
is  no  cat.”  This  statement  beautifully  sums  up  the
search  for  essences.  History  has  many  examples  of
scientists  who  searched  fruitlessly  for  an  essence
because  they  used  the  wrong  concept  to  guide  their
hypotheses.   Firestein   gives   the   example   of
luminiferous  ether,  a  mysterious  substance  that  was
thought to fill the universe so that light would have a
medium to move through. The ether was a black cat,
writes Firestein, and physicists had been theorizing in
a dark room, and then experimenting in it, looking for
evidence of a cat that did not exist.
  Concepts  are       (A)      for  understanding  the
world, but they can also       (B)      us to search
for non-existent phenomena, as seen by the historical
error of seeking the luminiferous ether.
① important - oversee
② impolite - stare
③ polite - say
④ political - tell
⑤ essential - allow
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [34]
8. 
9. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 5 -
진진영어
While  social  media  attention  is  potentially  an
instrument  to  achieve  ends  like  elite  celebrity,  some
content creators desire ordinary fame as a social end
in itself. Not unlike reality television stars, social media
celebrities are often criticized for not having skills and
talents associated with traditional, elite celebrity, such
as acting or singing ability. This criticism highlights the
fact that digital content creators face real barriers to
crossing over to the sphere of elite celebrity. However,
the  criticism  also  misses  the  point  that  the
phenomenon  of  ordinary  celebrity  reconstructs  the
meaning of fame. The elite celebrity is symbolized by
the metaphor of the star, characterized by mystery and
hierarchical  distance  and  associated  with  naturalized
qualities  of  talent  and  class.  The  ordinary  celebrity
attracts  attention  through  regular  and  frequent
interactions  with  other  ordinary  people.  Achieving
ordinary fame as a social media celebrity is like doing
well at a game, because in this sphere, fame is nothing
more nor less than relatively high scores on attention
scales, the metrics of subscribers, followers, Likes, or
clicks built into social media applications.
*sphere: 영역 **metric: 측정 기준
 According to the passage, Social media stars gain fame
not  through      (A)      talents  like  traditional
celebrities,  but  through  metrics  such  as  followers  and
likes, which can be seen as a phenomenon that      
(B)      "ordinary fame."
① natural - evades
② indefinite - evades
③ indefinite - redefines
④ exceptional - redefines
⑤ exceptional - disregards
다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A),
(B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [36]
The  discovery  of  mirror  neurons  has  profoundly
changed  the  way  we  think  of  a  fundamental  human
capacity, learning by observation. As children we learn
a  lot  by  observing  what  our  parents  and  friends  do.
Newborns,  in  the  first  week  of  life,  have  an  inborn
tendency to stick out their tongue if their parents stick
out theirs. Such imitation is not perfect. You may not
see the tongue stick out each time you stick yours out
at  your  newborn,  but  if  you  do  it  many  times,  the
tongue  will  come  out  more  often  than  if  you  do
something different. Babies babble and later start to
imitate  the  sounds  their  parents  produce.  Later  still,
they  play  with  vacuum  cleaners  and  hammers  in
imitation  of  their  parents.  Our  modern  cultures,  in
which we write, speak, read, build spaceships and go
to school, can work only because we are not restricted
to the behavior we are born with or learn by trial and
error. We can learn a lot by simply watching others.
 The study of mirror neurons changed our understanding
of learning via       (A)      surrounding. From youth,
we learn through       (B)     , and this ability grows
with repetition. This kind of learning enables human to
develop complex cultures and skills.
① imagining - manipulation
② communicating - navigation
③ exploring - integration
④ celebrating - collaboration
⑤ observing - imitation
10. 

(정답지) 2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
1 번 - ③   '자녀의 영재성에 대한 지나친 자랑은 아이에게는 부
모와 주변 사람의 기대에 항상 부응해야 한다는 부담감을 느끼게
되고 큰 스트레스가 된다'는 내용의 글이므로 '이 글에 따르면, 영
재 자녀를 둔 부모는 자녀의 능력을 과도하게 (A) 칭찬하는 것에
주의해야 하며, 이는 비현실적인 (B) 기대감을 조성하고 아이에게
불필요한 스트레스를 유발할 수 있다.'로 요약하는 것이 적절하다.
2 번 - ⑤   성공했던 사람과 관계를 맺는 것은 개인이 그들의 동
기를 다시 찾도록 도와주며, 부정적인 생각으로부터 멀어지도록
돕는다.
3 번 - ③   감정은 인간의 생존에 기여해 왔으며, 진화적 관점에
서 감정은 다양한 활동을 조절하는 "프로그램" 역할을 하며, 이를
통해 우리가 과거의 환경적 도전에 적응하고 생존할 수 있도록 도
왔다는 내용에 이므로, '감정은 환경 문제에 대한 우리의 대응을
안내하는 적응 (A)메커니즘으로 진화하여 (B)종의 생존을 향상
시키는데 도움이 되었다.'가 가장 적절하다.
4 번 - ①   AI 기술은 (A) 포괄적이고 균형 잡힌 근무 환경을 조
성하는 데 도움을 줄 수 있으며, 이는 장애를 가진 노동자들을 위
한 근무 환경 접근성과 작업의 질을 (B) 강화하는 동시에, 저숙련
노동자들의 업무 성과를 향상시키는 방식으로 이루어집니다.
5 번 - ④   이 글은 고래가 죽으면 다량의 이산화탄소를 격리하
고, 고래의 배설물은 해양 생태계를 비옥하게 하여 식물성 플랑크
톤의 성장을 촉진해 추가적인 탄소 격리를 돕는다는 내용이 강조
되고 있으므로, ④ '고래는 점차 환경 보호자의 관점에서 대기중
탄소를 줄이는 것으로 인식된다.'로 요약하는 것이 가장 적절하다.
6 번 - ④   위대한 작곡가들이 그들의 시대에 잘 이해받지 못한
이유가 익숙하지 않기 때문이라고 말하고 있으므로, '베토벤과 모
차르트와 같은 위대한 (A) 작곡가들이 자신들의 시대에 제대로 인
정받지 못한 이유는 그들의 작품이 전적으로 새롭고 이전에는 들
어본 적 없는 (B) 낯선 것이었기 때문이다.'와 같이 요약하는 것이
가장 적절하다.
7 번 - ④   새로운 매체(책, TV, SNS 등)가 우리의 세상 보는 방
식을 어떻게 변화시키는지 설명하므로, ' 모든 새로운 매체는 우리
가 세상을 다르게 볼 수 있도록 (A) 허용할 뿐만 아니라 텔레비전
으로 속도와 외면적 요소를 (B)강조한다.'등으로 요약하는 것이
적절하다.
8 번 - ⑤   요약문은 '개념은 세상을 이해하는 데 (A)필수적이지
만, 역사적으로 빛나는 에테르를 찾으려는 오류에서 알 수 있듯이
존재하지 않는 현상을 찾도록 (B)할 수 있다' 가 적절하다. 빈칸으
로 적절한 것은 ⑤ 이다.
9 번 - ④   엘리트 유명인과 평범한 유명인의 명성에 있어 분명
한 차이는 명성의 의미를 재정의한다는 내용이므로, '이 글에 따르
면, 소셜 미디어 스타들은 전통적인 유명인들처럼 (A)뛰어난 재능
을 통해 명성을 얻는 것이 아니라, 팔로워와 좋아요와 같은 지표를
통해 명성을 얻으며, 이는 '일반적인 명성'을 (B)재정의하는 현상
으로 볼 수 있다'와 같이 요약하는 것이 적절하다.
10 번 - ⑤   요약문 : 미러뉴런에 대한 연구는 주변을 관찰함으
로 진행되는 학습에 대한 우리의 이해를 바꾸었다. 어린시절부터,
우리는 모방을 통해 학습하고, 이러한 능력은 반복을 통해 성장한
다. 이러한 종류의 학습은 인간으로 하여금 복잡한 문화와 기술들
을 발달시킬 수 있도록 하게했다.