

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [20]
As the parent of a gifted child, you need to be aware of
a  certain  common  parent  trap.  Of  course  you  are  a
proud parent, and you should be. While it is very easy
to talk nonstop about your little genius and his or her
remarkable behavior, this can be very stressful on your
child. It is extremely important to                            
                 . Gifted children feel pressured when
their parents show them off too much. This behavior
creates expectations that they may not be able to live
up to, and also creates a false sense of self for your
child. You want your child to be who they are, not who
they  seem  to  be  as  defined  by  their  incredible
achievements. If not, you could end up with a driven
perfectionist child or perhaps a drop-out, or worse.
① be proud of your child secretly as much as possible
② keep in mind how much you express your child's genius
③ share every detail of your child's developmental stages
④ constantly conceal your child's incredible
accomplishments
⑤ take pride in your parenting skills and discipline
techniques
다음 글의 빈칸에 들어갈 단어의 영영 풀이로 가장 적절한 것
은? [21]
One valuable technique for getting out of helplessness,
depression,  and  situations  which  are  predominantly
being run by the thought, “I can’t,” is to choose to be
with  other  persons  who  have  resolved  the  problem
with which we struggle. This is one of the great powers
of self-help groups. When we are in a negative state,
we  have  given  a  lot  of  energy  to  negative  thought
forms, and the positive thought forms are weak. Those
who are in a higher vibration are free of the energy
from  their  negative  thoughts  and  have  energized
positive thought forms. Merely to be in their            
         is beneficial. In some self-help groups, this is
called “hanging out with the winners.” The benefit here
is on the psychic level of consciousness, and there is a
transfer of positive energy and relighting of one’s own
latent positive thought forms.
① being in a particular place or time
② a state where there lacks of something
③ a state that doesn’t exist in a given time
④ a specific feeling or mood induced by something
⑤ pouring lots of attention or energy to something
다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [22]
Our emotions are thought to exist because they have
                    . Fear has helped us avoid dangers,
expressing  anger  helps  us  scare  off  threats,  and
expressing  positive  emotions  helps  us  bond  with
others. From an evolutionary perspective, an emotion
is  a  kind  of  “program”  that,  when  triggered,  directs
many of our activities (including attention, perception,
memory, movement, expressions, etc.). For example,
fear makes us very attentive, narrows our perceptual
focus to threatening stimuli, will cause us either to face
a situation (fight) or avoid it (flight), and may cause us
to remember an experience more acutely (so that we
avoid  the  threat  in  the  future).  Regardless  of  the
specific ways in which they activate our systems, the
specific  emotions  we  possess  are  thought  to  exist
because  they  have  helped  us  (as  a  species)  survive
challenges  within  our  environment  long  ago.  If  they
had not helped us adapt and survive, they would not
have evolved with us.
① arose from social interactions
② are chiefly based on cultural factors
③ are meaningful in contemporary society
④ relsult from neurological and physical processes
⑤ have played a part in our species' survival
1. 
2. 
3. 
다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [32]
Every time a new medium comes along — whether it’s
the invention of the printed book, or TV, or SNS — and
you start to use it, it’s like you are putting on a new
kind  of  goggles,  with  their  own  special  colors  and
lenses. Each set of goggles you put on makes you see
things  differently.  So  when  you  start  to  watch
television,  before  you  absorb  the  message  of  any
particular TV show — whether it’s Wheel of Fortune or
The Wire — you start to see the world as                  
     . That’s why Marshall McLuhan said that every
time  a  new  medium  comes  along  —  a  new  way  for
humans  to  communicate  —  it  has  buried  in  it  a
message.  It  is  gently  guiding  us  to  see  the  world
according to a new set of codes. The way information
gets to you, McLuhan argued, is more important than
the information itself. TV teaches you that the world is
fast; that it’s about surfaces and appearances.
4. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 2 -
진진영어
① being interpreted the way it is
② being molded like television itself
③ being transformed unlike television itself
④ being shaped like any specific series of codes
⑤ being altered depending on a variety of messages
다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [20]
As the parent of a gifted child, you need to be aware of
a  certain  common  parent  trap.  Of  course  you  are  a
proud parent, and you should be. While it is very easy
to talk nonstop about your little genius and his or her
remarkable behavior, this can be very stressful on your
child. It is extremely important to limit your bragging
behavior to your very close friends, or your parents.
Gifted children feel pressured when their parents      
                                 . This behavior creates
expectations that they may not be able to live up to,
and also creates a false sense of self for your child.
You want your child to be who they are, not who they
seem  to  be  as  defined  by  their  incredible
achievements. If not, you could end up with a driven
perfectionist child or perhaps a drop-out, or worse.
① form a strong attachment with them
② ignore their achievements completely
③ express too much pride in their accomplishments
④ give material rewards for their academic success
⑤ impose harsh punishment on them for a wrong doing
다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [21]
One valuable technique for getting out of helplessness,
depression,  and  situations  which  are  predominantly
being run by the thought, “I can’t,” is          . This
is one of the great powers of self-help groups. When
we  are  in  a  negative  state,  we  have  given  a  lot  of
energy  to  negative  thought  forms,  and  the  positive
thought forms are weak. Those who are in a higher
vibration  are  free  of  the  energy  from  their  negative
thoughts and have energized positive thought forms.
Merely to be in their presence is beneficial. In some
self-help groups, this is called “hanging out with the
winners.” The benefit here is on the psychic level of
consciousness,  and  there  is  a  transfer  of  positive
energy  and  relighting  of  one’s  own  latent  positive
thought forms.
* latent: 잠재적인
① to stay with those who sacrifice themselves for others
② to learn from the mistakes that people have made in
the past
③ keeping connections with people in a higher social
position
④ spending time with those who need social skill
⑤ to be with the persons who have overcome the same
kind of problem
다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [22]
Our emotions are thought to exist because they have
contributed  to  our  survival  as  a  species.  Fear  has
helped  us  avoid  dangers,  expressing  anger  helps  us
scare  off  threats,  and  expressing  positive  emotions
helps  us  bond  with  others.  From  an  evolutionary
perspective, an emotion is a kind of “program” that,
when  triggered,  directs  many  of  our  activities
(including attention, perception, memory, movement,
expressions,  etc.).  For  example,  fear  makes  us  very
attentive, narrows our perceptual focus to threatening
stimuli, will cause us either to face a situation (fight)
or avoid it (flight), and may cause us to remember an
experience more acutely (so that we avoid the threat
in the future). Regardless of the specific ways in which
they  activate  our  systems,  the  specific  emotions  we
possess are thought to exist because they have helped
us  (as  a  species)                              within  our
environment long ago. If they had not helped us adapt
and survive, they would not have evolved with us.
① bond with others
② survive challenges
③ avoid a dangerous threat
④ scare off powerful predators
⑤ express unique personalities
5. 
6. 
7. 
다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [32]
Every time a new medium comes along — whether it’s
the invention of the printed book, or TV, or SNS — and
you start to use it, it’s like you are putting on a new
kind  of  goggles,  with  their  own  special  colors  and
lenses. Each set of goggles you put on makes you see
things  differently.  So  when  you  start  to  watch
television,  before  you  absorb  the  message  of  any
particular TV show — whether it’s Wheel of Fortune or
The Wire — you start to see the world as being shaped
like television itself. That’s why Marshall McLuhan said
that every time a new medium comes along — a new
way for humans to communicate — it has buried in it a
message.  It  is  gently  guiding  us  to  see  the  world
according to a new set of codes.                        ,
McLuhan argued, is more important than
8. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 3 -
진진영어
the information itself. TV teaches you that the world is
fast; that it’s about surfaces and appearances.
① The way information gets to you
② The type of information we receive
③ The differences between old and new media
④ How to access information as fast as possible
⑤ Interpreting information in a traditional point of view
다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [20]
As the parent of a gifted child, you need to be aware of
a  certain  common  parent  trap.  Of  course  you  are  a
proud parent, and you should be. While it is very easy
to talk nonstop about your little genius and his or her
remarkable behavior, this can be very stressful on your
child.  It  is  extremely  important  not  to          .
Gifted children feel pressured when their parents show
them off too much. This behavior creates expectations
that  they  may  not  be  able  to  live  up  to,  and  also
creates a false sense of self for your child. You want
your child to be who they are, not who they seem to
be as defined by their incredible achievements. If not,
you could end up with a driven perfectionist child or
perhaps a drop-out, or worse.
① limit how much you show off your child
② support them in whatever they want to achieve
③ suggest only easily reachable goals for your child
④ avoid your intervention in how your child performs
⑤ encourage your bragging behavior to your very close
friends, or your parents
다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [21]
One valuable technique for getting out of helplessness,
depression,  and  situations  which  are  predominantly
being run by the thought, “I can’t,” is           . This
is one of the great powers of self-help groups. When
we  are  in  a  negative  state,  we  have  given  a  lot  of
energy  to  negative  thought  forms,  and  the  positive
thought forms are weak. Those who are in a higher
vibration  are  free  of  the  energy  from  their  negative
thoughts and have energized positive thought forms.
Merely to be in their presence is beneficial. In some
self-help groups, this is called “hanging out with the
winners.” The benefit here is on the psychic level of
consciousness,  and  there  is  a  transfer  of  positive
energy  and  relighting  of  one’s  own  latent  positive
thought forms.
① to distance oneself from harmful influences
② to focus on past successes and achievements
③ to face negative thoughts through positive self-
affirmations
④ to surround oneself with people who are in a positive
mindset
⑤ to sustain mental balance between positive thoughts
and negative ones
9. 
10. 

(정답지) 2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
1 번 - ②   [응용] 재능 있는 아이들이 부모가 그들을 자랑할 때
부담감을 느낀다는 글이기 때문에, 빈칸에 들어갈 표현으로 가장
적절한 것은 ② '얼마나 많이 당신이 당신의 자녀의 천재성에 대해
표현하는지를 유념하는 것' 이다.
2 번 - ①   긍정적인 생각을 활력있게 만드는 사람들의 곁에 있
으라는 주제의 글로, 빈칸은 그들의 존재 만으로 근처에 있는 것
만으로 이득이 된다는 내용이기 때문에, 글의 빈칸에는 presence
가 들어가야 하고, presence의 영영풀이로 적절한 것은 ① 이다.
3 번 - ⑤   우리의 감정은 위협하는 자극이 있을 때, 상황에서 살
아남을 수 있는 일종의 프로그램을 작동시켜 인류의 생존을 도왔
다는 내용이므로 빈칸에 알맞는 내용은 ⑤이다.
4 번 - ②   흐름상 '텔레비전 그 자체처럼 형성된 것으로'가 되어
야 함. shaped를 molded로 paraphrase함.
5 번 - ③   이 글은 자녀의 영재성에 대해 지나치게 자랑하는 부
모에 대한 내용이고, 그렇게 했을 때의 부작용을 언급하고 있으므
로, '영재는 압박갑을 느낀다'로 시작하는 문장에서 빈칸에 들어갈
말로 가장 적절한 것은 ③ (그들의 부모가) 그들의 성취에 대해 너
무 많은 자신감을 표현할 (때)이다. <원문> show them off too
much [오답해석] ① 그들과 강한 애착을 형성하다 ② 그들의 성
취를 완전히 무시하다 ④ 그들의 학업 성공에 물질적인 보상을 제
공하다 ⑤ 잘못된 행동에 대해 가혹한 처벌을 가하다
6 번 - ⑤   원문은 to choose to be with other persons who
have resolved the problem with which we struggle
7 번 - ②   우리의 감정이 우리의 생존에 기여해 왔으며 두려움
은 우리를 매우 주의 깊게 만들어서 우리로 하여금 경험을 더 강렬
하게 기억하도록 그래서 우리가 [미래에 위협을 피하도록] 할 수
도 있다고 했으므로, 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은 ② '힘
든 상황에서 생존하도록'이다.
8 번 - ①   빈칸의 앞문장에서 새로운 정보전달의 매(개)체가 등
장할 때 그것이 그 안에 정보를 묻는다고 했으므로, 정보 그 자체
보다 매체가 중요하다는 내용이 적절하다. 때문에 빈칸에 들어갈
표현으로 가장 적절한 것은 ① '정보가 여러분에게 도달하는 방
식'이다.
9 번 - ⑤   부모가 자녀를 지나치게 자랑할 경우, 자녀가 압박감
을 느끼고 부정적인 영향을 받을 수 있음을 경고하며, 자랑은 가까
운 친구나 부모님에게 제한적으로 해야 한다고 강조하므로, 빈칸
으로 가장 적절한 것은 ⑤ '당신의 자랑을 매우 가까운 친구나 부
모님에게만 하도록 하다'이다.
10 번 - ④   빈칸 뒤에서 긍정적인 사람들과 함께 함으로써 부정
적인 사고에서 벗어나 긍정적인 변화로 이어지는 자조집단의 힘에
대해 언급하고 있으므로, 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은 ④
‘긍정적인 상태에 있는 사람들과 함께 있는 것’이다.