

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [21]
One valuable technique for getting out of helplessness,
depression,  and  situations  which  are  predominantly
being run by the thought, “I can’t,” is to choose to be
with  other  persons  who  have  resolved  the  problem
with which we struggle. This is one of the great powers
of self-help groups. When we are in a negative state,
we  have  given  a  lot  of  energy  to  negative  thought
forms, and the positive thought forms are weak. Those
who are in a higher vibration are free of the energy
from  their  negative  thoughts  and  have  energized
positive thought forms. Merely to be in their presence
is  beneficial.  In  some  self-help  groups,  this  is  called
“hanging out with the winners.” The benefit here is on
the  psychic  level  of  consciousness,  and  there  is  a
transfer of positive energy and relighting of one’s own
latent positive thought forms.
① The Role of Professional Help in Mental Health
② The Impact of the Psychic Level of Consciousness
③ Staying Away from Negative People Is Not Enough
④ The Impact of Self-help Groups on Positive Change
⑤ Overcoming Challenges through Negative Thoughts
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [22]
Our emotions are thought to exist because they have
contributed  to  our  survival  as  a  species.  Fear  has
helped  us  avoid  dangers,  expressing  anger  helps  us
scare  off  threats,  and  expressing  positive  emotions
helps  us  bond  with  others.  From  an  evolutionary
perspective, an emotion is a kind of “program” that,
when  triggered,  directs  many  of  our  activities
(including  attention,  perception,  memory,  movement,
expressions,  etc.).  For  example,  fear  makes  us  very
attentive, narrows our perceptual focus to threatening
stimuli, will cause us either to face a situation (fight)
or avoid it (flight), and may cause us to remember an
experience more acutely (so that we avoid the threat
in the future). Regardless of the specific ways in which
they  activate  our  systems,  the  specific  emotions  we
possess are thought to exist because they have helped
us  (as  a  species)  survive  challenges  within  our
environment long ago. If they had not helped us adapt
and survive, they would not have evolved with us.
① The Role of Emotions in Human Evolution
② The Neuroscience Behind Emotional Functions
③ The Way to Control Your Emotions Efficiently
④ The Psychological Impact of Negative Feelings
⑤ Emotions: Differences Among Different Cultures
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [31]
You hear again and again that some of the greatest
composers were misunderstood in their own day. Not
everyone  could  understand  the  compositions  of
Beethoven,  Brahms,  or  Stravinsky  in  their  day.  The
reason  for  this  initial  lack  of  acceptance  is
unfamiliarity.  The  musical  forms,  or  ideas  expressed
within  them,  were  completely  new.  And  yet,  this  is
exactly one of the things that makes them so great.
Effective  composers  have  their  own  ideas.  Have  you
ever seen the classic movie Amadeus? The composer
Antonio  Salieri  is  the  “host”  of  this  movie;  he’s
depicted  as  one  of  the  most  famous  non-great
composers ― he lived at the time of Mozart and was
completely overshadowed by him. Now, Salieri wasn’t
a bad composer; in fact, he was a very good one. But
he wasn’t one of the world’s great composers because
his work wasn’t original. What he wrote sounded just
like what everyone else was composing at the time.
① The Secret of Success: Hard Work, Not Talent
② The Distinction between Creativity and Originality
③ How to Make Music More Familiar and Approachable
④ Antonio Salieri: A Great Composer in His Own Right
⑤ The Important Factor That Makes Great Composers
Great
1. 
2. 
3. 
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [32]
Every time a new medium comes along — whether it’s
the invention of the printed book, or TV, or SNS — and
you start to use it, it’s like you are putting on a new
kind  of  goggles,  with  their  own  special  colors  and
lenses. Each set of goggles you put on makes you see
things  differently.  So  when  you  start  to  watch
television,  before  you  absorb  the  message  of  any
particular TV show — whether it’s Wheel of Fortune or
The Wire — you start to see the world as being shaped
like television itself. That’s why Marshall McLuhan said
that every time a new medium comes along — a new
way for humans to communicate — it has buried in it a
message.  It  is  gently  guiding  us  to  see  the  world
according to a new set of codes. The way information
gets to you, McLuhan argued, is more important than
the information itself. TV teaches you that the world is
fast; that it’s about surfaces and appearances.
4. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 2 -
진진영어
① How TV Shapes Your Perception
② How Do Goggles Cause Distortion?
③ The Influence of Our Perception on the Media
④ The Correlation between the Medium and the Lens
⑤ The Fastest Means of Communicating Information
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [33]
Concepts are vital to human survival, but we must also
be careful with them because concepts open the door
to essentialism. They encourage us to see things that
aren’t  present.  Stuart  Firestein  opens  his  book,
Ignorance, with an old proverb, “It is very difficult to
find a black cat in a dark room, especially when there
is  no  cat.”  This  statement  beautifully  sums  up  the
search  for  essences.  History  has  many  examples  of
scientists  who  searched  fruitlessly  for  an  essence
because  they  used  the  wrong  concept  to  guide  their
hypotheses.   Firestein   gives   the   example   of
luminiferous  ether,  a  mysterious  substance  that  was
thought to fill the universe so that light would have a
medium to move through. The ether was a black cat,
writes Firestein, and physicists had been theorizing in
a dark room, and then experimenting in it, looking for
evidence of a cat that did not exist.
① How to Find the Right Concept for Hypotheses
② The Significance of Concepts for Human Survival
③ The History of Luminiferous Ether and Its Discovery
④ Trap of Wrong Concepts Searching for What Isn't There
⑤ The Influence of Concepts in Discovering Absolute Truth
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [34]
While  social  media  attention  is  potentially  an
instrument  to  achieve  ends  like  elite  celebrity,  some
content creators desire ordinary fame as a social end
in itself. Not unlike reality television stars, social media
celebrities are often criticized for not having skills and
talents associated with traditional, elite celebrity, such
as acting or singing ability. This criticism highlights the
fact that digital content creators face real barriers to
crossing over to the sphere of elite celebrity. However,
the  criticism  also  misses  the  point  that  the
phenomenon  of  ordinary  celebrity  reconstructs  the
meaning of fame. The elite celebrity is symbolized by
the metaphor of the star, characterized by mystery and
hierarchical  distance  and  associated  with  naturalized
qualities  of  talent  and  class.  The  ordinary  celebrity
attracts  attention  through  regular  and  frequent
interactions  with  other  ordinary  people.  Achieving
ordinary fame as a social media celebrity is like doing
well at a game, because in this sphere, fame is nothing
more nor less than relatively high scores on attention
scales, the metrics of subscribers, followers, Likes, or
clicks built into social media applications.
*sphere: 영역 **metric: 측정 기준
① The Rise of Ordinary Celebrity as Trendsetters
② How Influencers Get Reputation at the Game Sphere
③ The Great Shift of Celebrity: From Elite to Ordinary
④ Influencers: Agents of Redefining the Notion of
Celebrity
⑤ The Battle for Fame: Elite Celebrity Vs. Social Media
Celebrity
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [35]
5. 
6. 
7. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 3 -
진진영어
Why  do  we  have  the  illusion  that  cramming  for  an
exam  is  the  best  learning  strategy?  Because  we  are
unable to differentiate between the various sections of
our memory. Immediately after reading our textbook
or our class notes, information is fully present in our
mind. It sits in our conscious working memory, in an
active  form.  We  feel  as  if  we  know  it,  because  it  is
present  in  our  short-term  storage  space  ...  but  this
short-term  section  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  long-
term memory that we will need in order to recall the
same information a few days later. After a few seconds
or   minutes,   working   memory   already   starts
disappearing, and after a few days, the effect becomes
enormous: unless you retest your knowledge, memory
vanishes. For long-term retention,
___________________________________, This
process of testing yourself is called retrieval practice, and
it strengthens the connections in your brain, helping to
transfer  information  from  short-term  to  long-term
memory.  Each  time  you  actively  try  to  recall  the
information, you reinforce those connections, making it
easier to retrieve the material in the future.
① Studying a Few Minutes Before the Exam Is the Most
Effective Way
② It Is Essential to Study and Then Test Yourself, Rather
Than Spend All Your Time Studying.
③ Taking a Long Break Is Helpful for Revitalizing Your
Mental Health
④ Being Focused on New Topics Rather Than Reviewing
the Same Material Is Better
⑤ It’s Better to Memorize Material at once Instead of
Studying It in All Your Study Sessions
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [36]
The  discovery  of  mirror  neurons  has  profoundly
changed  the  way  we  think  of  a  fundamental  human
capacity, learning by observation. As children we learn
a  lot  by  observing  what  our  parents  and  friends  do.
Newborns,  in  the  first  week  of  life,  have  an  inborn
tendency to stick out their tongue if their parents stick
out theirs. Such imitation is not perfect. You may not
see the tongue stick out each time you stick yours out
at  your  newborn,  but  if  you  do  it  many  times,  the
tongue  will  come  out  more  often  than  if  you  do
something different. Babies babble and later start to
imitate  the  sounds  their  parents  produce.  Later  still,
they  play  with  vacuum  cleaners  and  hammers  in
imitation  of  their  parents.  Our  modern  cultures,  in
which we write, speak, read, build spaceships and go
to school, can work only because we are not restricted
to the behavior we are born with or learn by trial and
error. We can learn a lot by simply watching others.
*babble: 옹알이하다
① How Parents Learn from Their Babies
② Here Are the Reworded Versions of Your Titles:
③ The Impact of Observatories on Human History
④ How Do Infants Learn Through Their Surroundings?
⑤ Authentic Imitation: A Substitute for Branded Products?
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [37]
Have you ever been surprised to hear a recording of
your  own  voice?  You  might  have  thought,  “Is  that
really what my voice sounds like?” Maybe your accent
is more pronounced in the recording than you realized,
or your voice is higher than it seems to your own ears.
This  is  of  course  quite  a  common  experience.  The
explanation  is  actually  fairly  simple.  There  are  two
pathways  through  which  we  perceive  our  own  voice
when  we  speak.  One  is  the  route  through  which  we
perceive most external sounds, like waves that travel
from the air through the outer, middle and inner ear. 
But because our vocal cords vibrate when we speak,
there  is  a  second  internal  path.  Vibrations  are
conducted through our bones and stimulate our inner
ears directly. Lower frequencies are emphasized along
this pathway. That makes your voice sound deeper and
richer to yourself than it may sound to other people.
*vocal cords: 성대 **frequency: 주파수
① A Variety of Ways Sounds Travel Through
② How Do We Make Heimlich Voice to Others
③ We Should Pronunciate Different Voice to Different
People
④ The Reason Voice Sound Different in Recordings
⑤ Factors of Making Various but Precise Accents While
Speaking
다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [39]
8. 
9. 
10. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 4 -
진진영어
Seawater contains an abundance of dissolved oxygen
that  all  marine  animals  breathe  to  stay  alive.  It  has
long been established in physics that cold water holds
more dissolved oxygen than warm water does ― this is
one reason that cold polar seas are full of life while
tropical  oceans  are  blue,  clear,  and  relatively  poorly
populated  with  living  creatures.  Thus,  as  global
warming raises the temperature of marine waters, it is
self-evident that the amount of dissolved oxygen will
decrease.  This  is  a  worrisome  and  potentially
disastrous  consequence  if  allowed  to  continue  to  an
ecosystem-threatening  level.  Now  scientists  have
analyzed data indicating that the amount of dissolved
oxygen in the oceans has been declining for more than
a half century. The data show that the ocean oxygen
level  has  been  falling  more  rapidly  than  the
corresponding  rise  in  water  temperature.  Falling
oxygen levels in water have the potential to impact the
habitat of marine organisms worldwide and in recent
years this has led to more frequent anoxic events that
killed or displaced populations of fish, crabs, and many
other organisms.
*dissolved: 용해된 **anoxic: 산소 결핍의
① The Warming of Ocean Waters and Its Impact on the
Amount of Dissolved Oxygen
② The Increase in the Fish Population in Tropical Seas
③ The Rise in Temperatures Leading to the Thriving of
Marine Life in Warm Seas
④ Effects of Ocean Depth Changes on Marine Life
⑤ The Relationship Between Sea Temperature and Human
Populations

(정답지) 2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
1 번 - ④   이 글은 우울감이나 무기력에서 벗어나기 위해 긍정
적인 에너지를 가진 사람들과 함께하는 것이 중요하다는 것이다.
특히, 자기 도움 그룹에서 다른 사람들과의 교류가 부정적인 사고
에서 벗어나 긍정적인 사고를 활성화하는 데 어떻게 도움이 되는
지에 관한 내용의 글이므로, 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은 ②
'자조 그룹이 긍정적 변화에 미치는 영향'이다.
2 번 - ①   감정이 존재하는 이유는 우리 인류의 생존에 기여했
기 때문이라는 내용의 글이므로, 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은
① '인류의 진화에 있어 감정의 역할'이다. [오답] ② 감정의 기능
뒤에 숨겨진 뇌과학 ③효과적으로 감정을 통제하는 법 ④ 부정적
느낌의 심리적 영향 ⑤ 감정: 다양한 문화간의 차이점
3 번 - ⑤   위대한 작곡가들의 독창성과 낯섦이 그들을 당대의
위대한 작품으로 인정받지 못하게 했다는 내용의 글이므로, 글의
제목으로 가장 적절한 것은 ③ '위대한 작곡가를 위대하게 만드는
중요한 요소'이다.
4 번 - ④   매체와 렌즈(고글)의 비유적 관계를 설명하며, 매체가
세계를 보는 방식을 변화시키는 방식에 초점을 맞추고 있으므로,
제목으로 가장 적절한 것은 ④ '매체와 렌즈 간의 상관관계'이다.
5 번 - ④   Firestein에 따르면 많은 과학자들이 실존하지 않는
개념을 탐구하며 본질을 찾으려는 헛된 시도를 했으며, 이는 어두
운 방에서 존재하지 않는 검은 고양이를 찾는 것과 같다는 사례를
통해 본질은 중요하지만 본질에 너무 얽매여서는 안된다는 내용의
글이므로, 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은 ④ '존재하지 않는 것
을 찾는 잘못된 개념의 함정'이다.
6 번 - ④   [기출응용] 소셜 미디어 유명인들이 전통적인 유명인
과는 다른 방식으로 주목을 받으며, 그들의 명성은 능력이나 재능
보다는 소셜 미디어 상에서의 상호작용과 주목을 통해 구축된다는
내용의 글이므로, 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은 ④ '인플루언
서: 유명성 개념을 재정의하는 주체들'이다.
7 번 - ②   위 글에선, 공부만 하는 것보다는, 스스로 반복 테스
트를 하는 것이 없으면, 기억은 사라진다고 했기 때문에, 장기간의
학습내용 보유를 위해, 빈칸에 들어가야 할 내용은, 테스트의 중요
성을 강조하는 ② 이 적절하다.
8 번 - ④   거울뉴런에 따라 아이들이 관찰하고 모방함으로써 학
습할 수 있다는 내용의 글이므로, 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은
④ ‘유아가 주변 환경을 통해 어떻게 학습하는가?’이다.
9 번 - ④   외부의 경로를 통해 귀로 들리는 소리 및 녹음된 소리
와 몸 내부의 경로를 통해 들리는 소리의 차이를 설명하고 있는 글
이므로, 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은 ④ '목소리가 녹음에서
다르게 들리는 이유'가 적절하다.
10 번 - ①   해양 수온 상승과 그것이 용존 산소량에 미치는 영
향이 글의 제목으로 적절하다. 본문에서는 해양 수온 상승이 용존
산소 수준을 낮추고, 이것이 해양 생물에게 미치는 영향에 대한 우
려를 다루고 있다.