

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [21]
One valuable technique for getting out of helplessness,
depression,  and  situations  which  are  predominantly
being run by the thought, “I can’t,” is to choose to be
with  other  persons  who  have  resolved  the  problem
with which we struggle. This is one of the great powers
of self-help groups. When we are in a negative state,
we  have  given  a  lot  of  energy  to  negative  thought
forms, and the positive thought forms are weak. Those
who are in a higher vibration are free of the energy
from  their  negative  thoughts  and  have  energized
positive thought forms. Merely to be in their presence
is  beneficial.  In  some  self-help  groups,  this  is  called
“hanging out with the winners.” The benefit here is on
the  psychic  level  of  consciousness,  and  there  is  a
transfer of positive energy and relighting of one’s own
latent positive thought forms.
* latent: 잠재적인
① the importance of positive energy in daily life
② ways to smoothly resolve conflicts with others
③ feetures of people with a strong sense of selflessness
④ learning the secrets to winning from successful people
⑤ shifting away from a negative mindset with positive
people
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [22]
Our emotions are thought to exist because they have
contributed  to  our  survival  as  a  species.  Fear  has
helped  us  avoid  dangers,  expressing  anger  helps  us
scare  off  threats,  and  expressing  positive  emotions
helps  us  bond  with  others.  From  an  evolutionary
perspective, an emotion is a kind of “program” that,
when  triggered,  directs  many  of  our  activities
(including  attention,  perception,  memory,  movement,
expressions,  etc.).  For  example,  fear  makes  us  very
attentive, narrows our perceptual focus to threatening
stimuli, will cause us either to face a situation (fight)
or avoid it (flight), and may cause us to remember an
experience more acutely (so that we avoid the threat
in the future). Regardless of the specific ways in which
they  activate  our  systems,  the  specific  emotions  we
possess are thought to exist because they have helped
us  (as  a  species)  survive  challenges  within  our
environment long ago. If they had not helped us adapt
and survive, they would not have evolved with us.
① novel designs of emotions to direct our behaviors
② significance of emotional suspension in a modern life
③ circumlocutory expression and creativity caused by
emotions
④ the evolutionary advantage of emotions in human
survival
⑤ emotions as a imperative source of entertainment
expression
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [24]
Whales  are  highly  efficient  at  carbon  storage.  When
they die, each whale sequesters an average of 30 tons
of  carbon  dioxide,  taking  that  carbon  out  of  the
atmosphere for centuries. For comparison, the average
tree absorbs only 48 pounds of CO2 a year. From a
climate  perspective,  each  whale  is  the  marine
equivalent  of  thousands  of  trees.  Whales  also  help
sequester  carbon  by  fertilizing  the  ocean  as  they
release  nutrient-rich  waste,  in  turn  increasing
phytoplankton  populations,  which  also  sequester
carbon  ―  leading  some  scientists  to  call  them  the
“engineers   of   marine   ecosystems.”   In   2019,
economists  from  the  International  Monetary  Fund
(IMF) estimated the value of the ecosystem services
provided by each whale at over $2 million USD. They
called for a new global program of economic incentives
to  return  whale  populations  to  preindustrial  whaling
levels as one example of a “nature-based solution” to
climate change. Calls are now being made for a global
whale  restoration  program,  to  slow  down  climate
change.
*sequester: 격리하다 **phytoplankton: 식물성 플랑크톤
① global efforts to stop illegal whaling
② whales endagered by global warming
③ the way whales help mitigate climate change
④ whales' capacity to sequester themselves from air
⑤ reasons and the ways whales sequester carbon in their
bodies
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [31]
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 2 -
진진영어
You hear again and again that some of the greatest
composers were misunderstood in their own day. Not
everyone  could  understand  the  compositions  of
Beethoven,  Brahms,  or  Stravinsky  in  their  day.  The
reason  for  this  initial  lack  of  acceptance  is
unfamiliarity.  The  musical  forms,  or  ideas  expressed
within  them,  were  completely  new.  And  yet,  this  is
exactly one of the things that makes them so great.
Effective  composers  have  their  own  ideas.  Have  you
ever seen the classic movie Amadeus? The composer
Antonio  Salieri  is  the  “host”  of  this  movie;  he’s
depicted  as  one  of  the  most  famous  non-great
composers ― he lived at the time of Mozart and was
completely overshadowed by him. Now, Salieri wasn’t
a bad composer; in fact, he was a very good one. But
he wasn’t one of the world’s great composers because
his work wasn’t original. What he wrote sounded just
like what everyone else was composing at the time.
① the importance of originality in music composition
② the success of composers who copied others' styles
③ the importance of music education in the 18th century
④ the influence of classical music on modern
compositions
⑤ the role of film in shaping the reputation of composers
like Mozart
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [32]
Every time a new medium comes along — whether it’s
the invention of the printed book, or TV, or SNS — and
you start to use it, it’s like you are putting on a new
kind  of  goggles,  with  their  own  special  colors  and
lenses. Each set of goggles you put on makes you see
things  differently.  So  when  you  start  to  watch
television,  before  you  absorb  the  message  of  any
particular TV show — whether it’s Wheel of Fortune or
The Wire — you start to see the world as being shaped
like television itself. That’s why Marshall McLuhan said
that every time a new medium comes along — a new
way for humans to communicate — it has buried in it a
message.  It  is  gently  guiding  us  to  see  the  world
according to a new set of codes. The way information
gets to you, McLuhan argued, is more important than
the information itself. TV teaches you that the world is
fast; that it’s about surfaces and appearances.
① the effect of a new medium on how we perceive the
world
② the innovation of new media in content creation and
consumption
③ the relationship between TV viewing time and academic
performance
④ the example of how new media is transforming
education and learning process
⑤ the advantage of a new medium for more immediate
and widespread access to information
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [33]
Concepts are vital to human survival, but we must also
be careful with them because concepts open the door
to essentialism. They encourage us to see things that
aren’t  present.  Stuart  Firestein  opens  his  book,
Ignorance, with an old proverb, “It is very difficult to
find a black cat in a dark room, especially when there
is  no  cat.”  This  statement  beautifully  sums  up  the
search  for  essences.  History  has  many  examples  of
scientists  who  searched  fruitlessly  for  an  essence
because  they  used  the  wrong  concept  to  guide  their
hypotheses.   Firestein   gives   the   example   of
luminiferous  ether,  a  mysterious  substance  that  was
thought to fill the universe so that light would have a
medium to move through. The ether was a black cat,
writes Firestein, and physicists had been theorizing in
a dark room, and then experimenting in it, looking for
evidence of a cat that did not exist.
① necessity of concepts in understanding science
② historical development of concepts of luminiferous
ether
③ impacts of proverbs on scientific thinking and discovery
④ difficulties of search for the non-existent based on
wrong concepts
⑤ roles of scientific experiments in proving existence of
essential substances
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [34]
5. 
6. 
7. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 3 -
진진영어
While  social  media  attention  is  potentially  an
instrument  to  achieve  ends  like  elite  celebrity,  some
content creators desire ordinary fame as a social end
in itself. Not unlike reality television stars, social media
celebrities are often criticized for not having skills and
talents associated with traditional, elite celebrity, such
as acting or singing ability. This criticism highlights the
fact that digital content creators face real barriers to
crossing over to the sphere of elite celebrity. However,
the  criticism  also  misses  the  point  that  the
phenomenon  of  ordinary  celebrity  reconstructs  the
meaning of fame. The elite celebrity is symbolized by
the metaphor of the star, characterized by mystery and
hierarchical  distance  and  associated  with  naturalized
qualities  of  talent  and  class.  The  ordinary  celebrity
attracts  attention  through  regular  and  frequent
interactions  with  other  ordinary  people.  Achieving
ordinary fame as a social media celebrity is like doing
well at a game, because in this sphere, fame is nothing
more nor less than relatively high scores on attention
scales, the metrics of subscribers, followers, Likes, or
clicks built into social media applications.
*sphere: 영역 **metric: 측정 기준
① the changing nature of fame due to social media
② the influence of reality television on modern fame
③ the rise of elite celebrities in various social media
④ the skills required for traditional and elite celebrity
⑤ the reason social media fame is superior to traditional
fame
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [36]
The  discovery  of  mirror  neurons  has  profoundly
changed  the  way  we  think  of  a  fundamental  human
capacity, learning by observation. As children we learn
a  lot  by  observing  what  our  parents  and  friends  do.
Newborns,  in  the  first  week  of  life,  have  an  inborn
tendency to stick out their tongue if their parents stick
out theirs. Such imitation is not perfect. You may not
see the tongue stick out each time you stick yours out
at  your  newborn,  but  if  you  do  it  many  times,  the
tongue  will  come  out  more  often  than  if  you  do
something different. Babies babble and later start to
imitate  the  sounds  their  parents  produce.  Later  still,
they  play  with  vacuum  cleaners  and  hammers  in
imitation  of  their  parents.  Our  modern  cultures,  in
which we write, speak, read, build spaceships and go
to school, can work only because we are not restricted
to the behavior we are born with or learn by trial and
error. We can learn a lot by simply watching others.
① Trial and error is an helpful way to learn.
② Incessant practice can only make learning perfect.
③ Any mimicking cannot be perfect in any ways.
④ Children's learning would rather be supervised by the
parents.
⑤ Knowledge and socialization can be achieved through
copying others.
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [37]
Have you ever been surprised to hear a recording of
your  own  voice?  You  might  have  thought,  “Is  that
really what my voice sounds like?” Maybe your accent
is more pronounced in the recording than you realized,
or your voice is higher than it seems to your own ears.
This  is  of  course  quite  a  common  experience.  The
explanation  is  actually  fairly  simple.  There  are  two
pathways  through  which  we  perceive  our  own  voice
when  we  speak.  One  is  the  route  through  which  we
perceive most external sounds, like waves that travel
from the air through the outer, middle and inner ear. 
But because our vocal cords vibrate when we speak,
there  is  a  second  internal  path.  Vibrations  are
conducted through our bones and stimulate our inner
ears directly. Lower frequencies are emphasized along
this pathway. That makes your voice sound deeper and
richer to yourself than it may sound to other people.
① how does human perception influence emotional
experiences?
② what steps can be taken to develop a deep and
resonant voice?
③ why does your voice seem unfamiliar when you hear it
in recordings?
④ in what ways do humans produce and perceive sound
in their environment?
⑤ why is clear and precise pronunciation essential for
effective communication?
다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [38]
8. 
9. 
10. 

2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 4 -
진진영어
Biologists   distinguish   two   kinds   of   similarity.
“Analogous”  traits  are  ones  that  have  a  common
function  but  arose  on  different  branches  of  the
evolutionary  tree  and  are  in  an  important  sense  not
“the same” organ. The wings of birds and the wings of
bees are both used for flight and are similar in some
ways because anything used for flight has to be built in
those ways, but they arose independently in evolution
and  have  nothing  in  common  beyond  their  use  in
flight.  “Homologous”  traits,  in  contrast,  may  or  may
not have a common function, but they descended from
a  common  ancestor  and  hence  have  some  common
structure that indicates their being “the same” organ.
The wing of a bat and the front leg of a horse have
very different functions, but they are all modifications
of the forelimb of the ancestor of all mammals. As a
result, they share nonfunctional traits like the number
of  bones  and  the  ways  they  are  connected.  To
distinguish analogy from homology, biologists usually
look at the overall architecture of the organs and focus
on their most useless properties.
① the necessity of bones in animal evolution
② the wonderful evolution of birds and insects
③ the reason birds and bees evolved different wings
④ the reason animals have similar traits in the process
⑤ the distinction between analogous and homologous
traits

(정답지) 2024년도 9월 1학년 2024년9월고1모의고사
- 1 -
진진영어
1 번 - ⑤   이 글은 스스로 "나는 할 수 없다"는 생각에 갇힌 상
태에서 벗어나기 위해, 이미 자신이 겪는 문제를 해결한 사람들과
함께하는 것이 중요하고, 이러한 방법은 자조 그룹에서 자주 사용
되며, 긍정적인 에너지를 가진 사람들과 함께 있으면 자신의 부정
적인 생각을 약화시키고, 잠재된 긍정적인 생각을 강화하는 데 도
움이 된다고 하고 있으므로, 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은 ⑤ '긍
정적인 사람들과 함께하며 부정적인 사고방식에서 벗어나기'이다.
2 번 - ④   감정이 인간의 생존에 긍정적인 영향을 미쳤다는 내
용의 글이므로, 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은 ④ '인간 생존에서
의 감정의 진화적 이점'이다.
3 번 - ③   이 글은 고래가 기후 변화 완화에 중요한 역할을 한다
는 내용의 글이므로, 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은 ③ '고래가 기
후 변화를 완화시키는 방법'이다.
4 번 - ①   베토벤, 브람스, 모차르트와 같은 위대한 작곡가들이
원래의 창의적인 아이디어로 유명해졌으며, 살리에리와 같은 작곡
가는 창의성이 부족해 위대한 작곡가가 되지 못했다는 내용의 글
이므로, 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은 ① '음악 작곡에서 창의성
의 중요성'이다.
5 번 - ①   이 글은 새로운 매체를 접하면서 자연스럽게 우리가
세상을 바라보는 일련의 방식에 영향을 준다는 내용이므로, 글의
주제로 가장 적절한 것은 ① '우리가 세상을 어떻게 인식하는가에
미치는 새로운 미디어의 영향'이다. [오답해석] ② 콘텐츠 제작 및
소비 분야에서 뉴미디어의 혁신 ③ TV 시청 시간과 학업 성과 간
의 관계 ④ 뉴미디어가 교육 및 학습 프로세스를 변화시키는 방법
의 예 ⑤ 정보에 대한 보다 즉각적이고 광범위한 액세스를 위한 새
로운 매체의 이점
6 번 - ④   잘못된 개념이 존재하지 않는 것을 찾으려는 헛된 노
력을 초래할 수 있음을 강조하므로, 주제로 가장 적절한 것은 ④
'잘못된 개념에 기반하여 존재하지 않는 것을 찾는 데 따른 어려
움'이 적절하다.
7 번 - ①   소셜 미디어를 통해 명성의 개념이 어떻게 변화하고
있는지에 대해 설명하고 있으므로, 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은
① '소셜 미디어에 의해 명성의 성격이 변화하는 과정'이다.
8 번 - ⑤   거울 뉴런의 발견은 관찰 학습이라는 인간의 기본 능
력에 대한 우리의 생각을 변화시켰다는 내용의 글이므로, 글의 주
제로 가장 적절한 것은 ⑤ '지식과 사회화는 다른 이를 따라함으로
성취할 수 있다'가 적절하다.
9 번 - ③   자신의 목소리를 인지하는 두 가지 경로에 관한 글이
다. 따라서 이 글의 주제로는 ③ 왜 너의 목소리는 녹음된 소리를
들으면 낯설까?가 가장 적절하다. [응용]
10 번 - ⑤   위 글은 'analogous' 특징과 'homologous'의 특징
을 새와 벌의 날개를 예시로 설명하고 있기 때문에, 위 글의 주제
로 가장 적절한 것은 ⑤이다.