고1_2025_09월(인천시) - 읽기영역(18~45번)

Q. 본문과 해석에 자유롭게 필기하면서 내용을 정리해 보시오.

본문해석지(문제지)

1. p2-no.18

Dear Principal Jones, I hope this message finds you well. As

student council president, I am reaching out to discuss an

important  matter  regarding  our  school  library's  current

operating hours. At present, the library closes at 5 p.m.,

which many students feel limits their ability to fully use its

resources for study and research after regular class hours.

This  is  particularly  challenging  for  those  preparing  for

college entrance exams or working on academic projects

that  demand  a  quiet  and  resourceful  environment.

Therefore,  I'd  like  to  ask  you  to  extend  the  library's

operating  hours  to  7  p.m.  This  change  would  greatly

benefit students by providing additional time to focus on

their academic goals. I hope you will consider this proposal

as a step toward improving our academic environment and

better supporting our needs. Sincerely, Eric Park Student

Council President

2. p2-no.19

I glanced at the clock on the wall. 10:00. That meant the

casting director would call very soon with the results of my

first audition for a musical part in The Wizard of Oz. I felt

shaky all over, chewing my thumbnail and jiggling my feet.

Finally, the telephone rang. While I was coming round, Dad

answered.  I  heard  him  say,  "Ahh,  thank  you.  I'll  let  her

know..." As I got to the bottom of the stairs, he was just

putting  the  phone  down.  "That  was  The  Wizard  of  Oz.

You're  second  senior  munchkin,"  he  announced.  I  got  a

little rush of excitement, knowing I was in ─ that whatever

happened I could be involved in one of the productions.

3. p2-no.20

Inefficient  teachers  overlook  the  potential  power  of  the

opening  minutes  of  class.  Often,  if  students  are  quiet

enough  and  if  there  are  many  pressing  demands  on  a

teacher's time at that moment, more than ten minutes can

disappear before class starts. It's no wonder that students

are late for class; they have little reason to be on time. You

can use the first ten minutes to get your class off to a great

start,  or  you  can  choose  to  waste  this  time.  The  first

minutes set the tone for the rest of the class. If you are

prepared  for  class  and  have  taught  your  students  an

opening  routine,  they  can  use  this  brief  time  to  make

mental  and  emotional  transitions  from  the  last  class  or

subject and prepare to focus on learning new material. In

summary,  you  should  establish  an  opening  routine  to

develop your class with an effective start.

4. p3-no.21

Many atoms in your body are nearly as old as the universe

itself. When you breathe, for example, only some of the

atoms that you inhale are exhaled in your next breath. The

remaining atoms are taken into your body to become part

of you, and they later leave your body by various means.

You don't "own" the atoms that make up your body; you

borrow  them.  We  all  share  from  the  same  atom  pool

because atoms forever travel around, within, and among us.

Atoms cycle from person to person as we breathe and as

our  sweat  is  evaporated.  We  recycle  atoms  on  a  grand

scale. The origin of the lightest atoms goes back to the

origin of the universe, and most heavier atoms are older

than the Sun and Earth. There are atoms in your body that

have existed since the first moments of time, circulating

throughout the universe among limitless forms, both living

and nonliving. You're the present caretaker of the atoms in

your body. There will be many who will follow you.

5. p3-no.22

The act of gardening itself is a fantastic form of physical

activity. It involves a range of motions, from digging and

planting to watering and harvesting. These activities help

improve strength, flexibility, and endurance. You might not

realize it, but small tasks like weeding or turning compost

can burn many calories. Gardening is particularly beneficial

for those who find traditional exercise challenging. It's a

low-impact way to stay active and fit, making it accessible

for people of all ages and physical abilities. Besides physical

health,  gardening  has  profound  mental  health  benefits.

Tending to plants can be incredibly calming and meditative.

It allows you to focus on the present moment, reducing

stress  and  anxiety.  The  repetitive  tasks  involved  in

gardening  can  induce  a  state  of  mindfulness,  similar  to

meditation.  Studies  have  shown  that  spending  time  in

nature, even in a small garden, can elevate mood, improve

cognition, and lessen depression symptoms. The sense of

accomplishment from watching your plants grow and thrive

can also boost self-esteem and overall well-being.

6. p3-no.23

For many centuries, humans have taken advantage of tools

that  translate  and  bring  into  our  perception  natural

phenomena that we can't perceive with our senses. In some

cases, this consists of simply amplifying signals that feed

into our normal sensory inputs (e.g., telescopes can bring

into clear view that which is too far away for our eyes to

perceive on their own). Other instruments turn signals that

we cannot perceive into ones that we can observe. Some of

these take the form of expanding the reach of our current

senses,  such  as  creating  visible  images  based  on  the

ultraviolet spectrum of light or changing sounds that are

normally outside the range of what human ears can hear

into  audible  signals.  Alternatively,  some  instruments

measure properties for which we have no sensory capacity

at all and change them into that which we can observe.

7. p3-no.24

Many opponents of animal experimentation argue that not

only is modern medicine not the only cause for the decline

in mortality, many medical advances that did contribute to

h u m a n   h e a l t h   w e r e   n o t   t h e   r e s u l t   o f   a n i m a l

experimentation. Defenders of research have claimed that

since there is a strong correlation between the practice of

animal  experimentation  and  medical  advancement,  the

former caused the latter. Opponents of research reject this

inference. After all, we have independent reasons to expect

these phenomena to be correlated. Since the law prescribes

that  all  new  drugs,  prosthetic  devices,  and  surgical

techniques  be  tried  on  animals  before  they  are  used  in

humans, we will subsequently find that all medical advances

are  correlated  with  prior  experimentation  on  animals.

C o n s e q u e n t l y ,   t h e   c o r r e l a t i o n   b e t w e e n   a n i m a l

experimentation and medical discovery is the result of legal

necessity, not evidence that animal experimentation led to

medical advances. Moreover, several influential physicians

h a v e   o f f e r e d   h i s t o r i c a l   e v i d e n c e   t h a t   a n i m a l

experimentation has not been as responsible for biomedical

discovery  as  defenders  suggest.  They  claim  that  clinical

discoveries  played  a  more  substantial  role  than  animal

researchers have led us to believe.

8. p5-no.29

Big  mammalian  herbivore  species  react  to  danger  from

predators or humans in different ways. Some species are

nervous, fast, and programmed for instant flight when they

perceive a threat. Other species are slower, less nervous,

seek  protection  in  herds,  stand  their  ground  when

threatened, and don't run until necessary. Naturally, the

nervous species are difficult to keep in captivity. If put into

an  enclosure,  they  are  likely  to  panic,  and  either  die  of

shock or hit themselves repeatedly to death against the

fence in their attempts to escape. That's true, for example,

of gazelles, which for thousands of years were the most

frequently hunted game species in some parts of the Fertile

Crescent. There is no mammal species that the first settled

peoples of that area had more opportunity to domesticate

than  gazelles.  But  no  gazelle  species  has  ever  been

domesticated. Just imagine trying to herd an animal that

runs away, blindly hits itself against walls, can leap up to

nearly 30 feet, and can run at a speed of 50 miles per hour!

9. p5-no.30

For a species born in a time when resources were limited

and dangers were great, our natural tendency to share and

cooperate is complicated when resources are plenty and

outside dangers are few. When we have less, we tend to be

more open to sharing what we have. Certain nomadic tribes

don't have much, yet they are happy to share because it is

in their interest to do so. If you happen upon them in your

travels, they will open up their homes and give you their

food  and  hospitality.  It's  not  just  because  they  are  nice

people; it's because their survival depends on sharing, for

they know that they may be the travelers in need of food

and shelter another day. Ironically, the more we have, the

bigger our fences, the more sophisticated our security to

keep  people  away  and  the  less  we  want  to  share.  Our

desire  for  more,  combined  with  our  decreased  physical

interaction  with  the  "common  folk,"  starts  to  create  a

disconnection or blindness to reality.

10. p5-no.31

Whether we feel happy or sad, content or discontent, is not

determined merely by each individual successive moment

of life experience ─ a good thing happens and I'm happy,

a bad thing happens and I'm sad. While our experiences

affect our mood, we are not blown in a completely new

direction by each gust of wind. As humans, we adjust ─ to

new information and events both good and bad ─ and

return to our personal default level of well-being. There will

be highs and lows, but over time, like water seeking its own

level, we are pulled toward our baseline ─ back up after

bad news and back down after good. The euphoria of first

love  fades,  and  so  does  the  despair  of  a  break-up.  This

tendency  is  best  seen  with  little  kids  and  their  toy  joy:

When they get what they've longed for, they believe they

will be happy for the rest of their lives. And for the first few

minutes of the rest of their lives, they are. But then the kids

─ like adults ─ adapt.

11. p5-no.32

Although  you  may  put  off  going  to  sleep  in  order  to

squeeze more activities into your day, eventually your need

for sleep becomes overwhelming and you are forced to get

some sleep. This daily drive for sleep appears to be due, in

part,  to  a  compound  known  as  adenosine.  This  natural

chemical builds up in your blood as time awake increases.

While you sleep, your body breaks down the adenosine.

Thus, this molecule may be what your body uses to keep

track of lost sleep and to trigger sleep when needed. An

accumulation of adenosine and other factors might explain

why, after several nights of less than optimal amounts of

sleep, you build up a sleep debt that you must make up by

sleeping  longer  than  normal.  Because  of  such  built-in

molecular  feedback,  you  can't  become  accustomed  to

getting less sleep than your body needs. Eventually, a lack

of sleep catches up with you.

12. p6-no.33

One  of  the  things  that  makes  uncertainty  difficult  for

members of the public to appreciate is that the significance

of uncertainty is relative. Take, for example, the distance

between Earth and the sun: 1.49597 x 10 km, as measured

at one point during the year. This seems relatively precise;

after  all,  using  six  significant  digits  means  I  know  the

distance  to  an  accuracy  of  one  part  in  a  million  or  so.

However,  if  the  next  digit  is  uncertain,  that  means  the

uncertainty in knowing the precise Earth-sun distance is

larger than the distance between New York and Chicago!

Whether or not the quoted number is "precise" therefore

depends on what I'm intending to do with it. If I care only

about what minute the sun will rise tomorrow, then the

number quoted here is fine. If I want to send a satellite to

orbit just above the sun, however, then I would need to

know distances more accurately.

13. p6-no.34

Richard Heinberg, an American journalist, argues that in

building the renewable energy infrastructure to stop global

warming, we are actually involved in one of the greatest

change  projects  in  human  history.  In  addition  to  solar

panels and wind turbines, we have to build an alternative

transport infrastructure, farming procedures and industrial

processes. This transformation cannot happen without fossil

fuels. For instance, production of concrete structures and

steel  elements  require  amounts  of  energy  that  is  only

possible to produce with fossil energy. Production of solar

panels requires scarce and expensive minerals which must

be excavated, again requiring the use of fossil fuels. Thus,

the harder we push towards a renewable energy system,

the faster we have to use fossil energy for the construction

process.  This  is  not  only  expensive,  but  also  an

undermining factor for our efforts to cut global emissions.

Heinberg remarks that the cost of building this new energy

infrastructure  is  seldom  counted  in  transition  proposals,

which tend to focus just on energy supply requirements.

14. p6-no.35

Humans for centuries have dreamed of machines that could

become intelligent and make human-like decisions. There

have been myths about robots, automatons, and artificial

beings since ancient Greece (e.g., the myth of Pandora, who

released ills upon the world). Likewise, literature throughout

history has dreamed of creating human-like creatures and

thinking  machines  (e.g.,  Mary  Shelley's  Frankenstein).  In

1950,  British  mathematician  Alan  Turing  asked  whether

machines  could  think  and  reason  like  humans  and  then

developed  the  Turing  test  to  measure  a  machine's

intelligence  and  whether  the  machines  can  think

autonomously.  A  few  years  later,  MIT  professor  John

McCarthy  coined  "artificial  intelligence,"  replacing  the

previously used expression "automata studies." Since then,

artificial intelligence has become the study and practice of

"making  intelligent  machines"  that  are  programmed  to

think  like  humans  ─  endowed  by  their  creators  with

reasoning and learning.

15. p6-no.36

The desert tortoise has a simple solution for coping with

Death Valley's extreme heat: It avoids it. The slow-moving

creature hibernates during the winter and stays in its tunnel

for much of the summer, meaning that it spends more than

90 percent of its life immobile. In fact, the tortoise usually

only surfaces after a good rain. Then, it gets to work. The

tortoise stocks up on water by eating plants and digging

holes  to  collect  rain.  But  to  stay  supplied  with  water

through  its  extended  hibernation,  the  reptile  relies  on

something else ─ its highly sophisticated bladder. Unlike

most animals, the tortoise's bladder acts as a holding tank,

allowing it to reabsorb water back into its body. Incredibly,

a desert tortoise can go a full year without taking in any

freshwater at all. And because its bladder is so important to

a tortoise's survival, park rangers often remind visitors not

to  stop  and  help  the  slow-movers  across  the  road.

Tortoises become so terrified when people pick them up

that they empty their bladders, losing their precious water

reserves.

16. p7-no.37

Imagine you are pedalling your bicycle on a level road. You

stop pedalling: no force is now acting to move you forward.

What happens? You gradually slow down. How could you

slow down more suddenly, in a shorter distance? By putting

the brakes on. Because the brakes change your movement,

making  you  slow  down  more  suddenly,  they  must  be

exerting a force on the bicycle and you, as they grip and

rub  on  the  wheel-rims.  This  is  the  force  called  friction,

which tends to slow down moving things by acting in the

direction opposite to movement, that is backwards. Even

without the brakes on, there are other friction forces acting

on you and your bicycle, which also slow you down. One of

these is friction in the wheels rubbing on the axles. Another

is air resistance, which you can feel, pushing you backwards

as you and the bicycle move forwards. When you apply

these ideas to something around you, like a cart, you can

see  what  could  be  generating  friction:  mainly  the  axles

rubbing on the body as they rotate.

17. p7-no.38

All  editing  systems  are  now  nonlinear  computer-based

systems  that  allow  random  access  to  any  video  shot  or

scene without having to fast forward or fast reverse to find

it. Nonlinear systems can create a range of special effects,

such as slow motion, wipes and dissolves. Another highlight

of a digital nonlinear system is its random access process

that makes it easy for an editor to find desired shots or

scenes  without  having  to  spend  time  fast  forwarding  or

rewinding  videotape.  With  nonlinear  editing,  shots  and

scenes can be easily added or removed anywhere in the

program,  and  the  computer  adjusts  the  program  length

automatically. Linear editing was like composing a paper on

a  typewriter.  If  a  mistake  was  made  or  new  information

needed to be added the whole piece had to be retyped.

Nonlinear editing, on the other hand, is like using a word

processing  program.  If  a  mistake  is  made,  it  is  easily

deleted  and  fixed  with  a  few  keystrokes,  and  new

information can be added easily.

18. p7-no.39

A  morally  good  person  is  one  who  does  morally  bad

actions significantly less often than most and does morally

good ones significantly more often than most. In judging a

person not only her actions but also her intentions and

motives are relevant. A morally good person must intend to

do morally good actions and intend to avoid morally bad

ones.  A  person  who  unintentionally  prevents  harm  to

others and does not harm them simply because things do

not turn out as she intends is not morally good. Although

this  kind  of  situation  generally  occurs  only  in  slapstick

movies, it is worth mentioning to avoid the false impression

that it is the actual consequences of a person's actions that

count toward her being judged morally good or bad. But

actual consequences are important. A person who always

tries  to  prevent  harm  but  never  does,  is  not  generally

thought of as morally good. Of such a person, it may be

said  that  she  means  well;  but,  contrary  to  Kant,  some

results  are  necessary  before  she  is  regarded  as  morally

good.

19. p7-no.40

Vision is influenced by our preconceptions about reality. In

viewing a scene, we establish unconscious hierarchies that

reflect  our  functional  relationship  to  objects  and  our

momentary  priorities.  For  example,  when  visualizing  a

hammer in our mind's eye, we tend to "see" it in profile or

at some other 'ready for use' angle. One would probably

not visualize a hammer as seen from the top so that the

handle  is  hidden  by  the  hammer's  head.  The  functional

relationship  we  have  with  objects  creates  visual

expectations that interfere with our ability to see "like a

camera." The camera, like the human eye, sees only shapes

and colors. It documents the world impartially through a

lens  that  is  similar  to  the  eye.  When  we  look  at  them

carefully, photographs are often surprising because they

don't interpret confusing details but simply serve them up

to us with a mechanical indifference. And because of their

flatness, photographs often contain areas that appear as

unrecognizable  colors  and  shapes.  ─>  Our  visual

perception is shaped by an established hierarchy based on

functional relationships, which interrupts our ability to see

objects as they truly are, unlike the objective perspective of

a camera.

20. p8-no.41~42

"May I help you?" are the worst four words that a retail

salesperson can utter because they don't encourage the

customer to talk and put them on the defensive. The four

words usually draw out a negative response that stops cold

a  sales  transaction.  Examples  of  better  questions  to  use

when  approaching  customers  are  "Is  there  anything  in

particular that you are looking for?" and "Are you shopping

for a gift?" If a fashion salesperson approached you with

"May  I  help  you?"  chances  are  you  would  feel  the

salesperson didn't care. This line is a rote approach that is

so overused by untrained and uninterested salespeople. In

fact, most of us shudder in horror on hearing these words.

The  very  meaning  of  the  question  "May  I  help  you?"

implies that the customer is in trouble of some sort and

needs rescuing. This almost always puts the customer on

the  defense.  "No,  thank  you"  is  usually  the  immediate

response,  even  if  the  customer  is  actually  in  need  of

assistance. The subconscious thought by the customer is

often "I'm smart enough to figure out what I want, and I

don't  need  your  help!"  If  customers  feel  pressured  or

cornered,  then  salespeople  won't  make  any  sales.  The

approach has to promote a comfortable environment that

makes  customers  feel  there  is  no  rush.  Furthermore,  if

customers just want to look around, they should feel that it

is all right to do so. In situations where customers really do

want to look around on their own, salespeople should give

customers  their  business  cards  and  keep  themselves

accessible in case customers have questions or concerns.

21. p8-no.43~45

While the cafeteria was full of high school students on that

afternoon,  Dave  was  thirsty.  We  sat  near  yet  away  from

him, fixing our hair and worrying about the test next period

we hadn't studied for. He was far away from our world, yet

forced to be a part of it. He stood at the drink machine

with purpose, fumbling through his fake leather wallet for

some change. He came up with a wrinkled dollar bill, and

nervously glanced back at his table where other students in

his  class  were  sitting.  Dave  tried  to  make  the  machine

accept  his  money.  After  he  failed  a  few  times,  some

students began to laugh at him. He started shaking, and

tears began to form in his eyes. I saw him turn to sit down,

looking  like  he  had  given  up.  But  for  some  reason,  he

decided against it. He wasn't leaving until he got a drink.

With a determined expression, he kept aimlessly pushing

the dollar bill into the machine. Just then a popular senior

boy stood up from his seat, and walked over to the boy. He

calmly  explained  how  the  machine  often  had  trouble

accepting dollar bills. After that, he pulled some coins from

his pocket and put them into the machine. Dave gave him

his dollar and chose a flavor of fruit juice. Then the two

walked off in different directions. Although it was clear that

they  were  from  very  different  worlds,  for  one  moment,

they'd shared a real understanding. As I walked away from

my lunch table that day, I looked at Dave. I thought he and

the  dollar  were  very  much  alike.  They  both  weren't

accepted where the world said they were supposed to be.

But just as the dollar had found a place in a warm-hearted

senior's pocket, I was sure he would eventually find his, too.

